greetings one at all Ozil Montgomery
again bringing you another satisfying a
nutritious Chinese saying this time I
picked out another well easy to
pronounce classic that goes back to the
last year's of the eastern Han and
anytime you talk about the end of the
Han Dynasty you know it's all it's all
is going to get a mention he's the star
of our Chung you today her Chinese
saying the story comes to us courtesy of
the book of way in the San watcher the
records of the three kingdoms the most
authoritative historical source that has
made it down to us in the 21st century
this would have been one of law Quan
Jones primary sources when he wrote his
romance of the three kingdoms today we
look at way ruji lay or syllable
standard equipment when it comes to
these Chung you here's the blow-by-blow
analysis way means taste taste of
something rule means like as or as if
you combine the two characters and you
have way Rupe the taste is like or this
tastes as if moving right along gee
there's a chicken and lay means ribs gee
late chicken ribs tastes like chicken
ribs way whoo qi lai okay well that
doesn't appear to have any obvious
meaning so there has to be a story
behind it involving salts home he lived
from 155 to 220 childs i was chancellor
during the final years of the eastern
han dynasty after he died his son tell p
who we discussed in CSP episode 1 guat
Cheng Li Jie tau P went and founded the
kingdom of way they were one of the
three kingdoms who fought to win control
of a unified China after the death of
the final Han Emperor that was it as far
as the unified country we know his China
now the Middle Kingdom was divvied up
into three separate kingdoms called wait
shoe and wool again the details long ago
presented in the China history podcast
episode 23 our story behind way Ruchi
late takes place in shaanxi province
mainly around the city of Hangzhou I
don't mean to keep dropping these little
nugs on you about little known facts but
Han Jung is the city that gave us the
name of the Han Dynasty since Leo bung
was formerly king of Han Jung and after
leo bond did away with shown you at the
end of the true Han contention he named
his new dynasty the Han from Han Jung
tal tal first took this city into 15
from the old bay of shul now this shoe
kingdom was in the southwest around suit
Ron after talciao took Han Jung away
from them Leo base troops retreated back
to their home base in citron after he
felt that Han joan was under control
solid South felt it was safe for him to
head back to his base and yeah Chung an
ancient district in hobe a present-day
lean Jean County after tal tal left han
jung the shoe ruler Leo Bay began to
make plans to take the city back and in
the fall of 218 he did just that he took
the city and after pushing hotels are me
out of Hong Jong he moved in and assumed
control salto wasn't happy about this
and put his generals on notice to take
it back but it was to no avail after
trying a few times and real hard I might
add Todd's house army couldn't extract
Leo Bay and his shoe army from Han Jung
every battle thought ended without a
decisive result no one could defeat the
other finally in September to 18 Sol's
how it had enough with his generals
excuses so he pushed them all aside and
rode back to Hong Kong and said he
himself would leave the army against
shoe but even after throwing everything
he had against leo Bay and his shoe army
tell us how couldn't declare a total
victory this was really demoralizing so
one day
when things are not looking good it's
how it's all retired to his tent to have
his evening rice ponder his next move
keep at it or declare victory and head
home while tile tile SAT there
contemplating his options one of his
generals entered the tent as he did
every night at this time to get the
master password according to the story
as he fulminated over what the new
password would be halls house stared
down at his bowl of soup and replied
chicken ribs the general bowed and exit
the tent had passed the word through the
chain of command now finally the
password was given to young show who was
perhaps child's house most trusted
right-hand man upon hearing the new
password and knowing his boss like he
did young show immediately gave the
orders to his subordinates to quietly
begin making preparations to withdraw
from Han Jung the general asked young
show how could he possibly know this was
going to be taught house command young
show told him plainly that this password
from solid South was all he needed to
know about where the king of ways head
was at young show further said the
situation has become desperate and
hopeless provisions were running out the
shoe military turn out to be stronger
than they expected by using a password
such as chicken ribs tautog was
revealing what was in his heart young
show continued you see chicken ribs are
tasteless and not much use but tasteless
as they maybe they got a little bit of
meat on the bone that makes it a pity to
just throw it away that's what Han Jung
had become too tall so it wasn't life or
death to take and hold the city but what
a shame to walk away without it sure
enough the next morning bright and early
salts how issued the orders to withdraw
from Han Jung and from this we get way
ruchi late tastes like chicken ribs
meaning something of little value or use
yet just enough value or use whereby to
give it up would seem a waste it can
also mean
to lack interest in doing something
because to do it yields almost nothing
to your benefit it also can be used to
describe anything in your life that
might be called rubbish but which you
can't bring yourself to toss in the
garbage halal originally was thinking he
had to take hun Joan back but after
expending so much blood and treasure to
accomplish the task he realized what's
he trying so hard for it just wasn't
worth it I'm sure we all have plenty of
chicken ribs hanging around our house
and in our fridge you know it's not
really worth it to keep it but why throw
it away that ratty sofa for example that
you have in your home or office the
edges of which your cats have clawed to
shreds you know you should dump it but
it's still comfortable and serves its
purpose what a shame to toss it a nice
example of chicken ribs so that's the
story of tal tal lil bae yong shou and
the chicken ribs wait ruji late not much
use but a pity to toss it for more about
all these guys remember the China
history podcast is available for you 24
7 with all the major details about this
and other topics from thousands of years
of Chinese history all free all the time
and don't forget every two weeks the
China vintage our great stuff for a long
drive eyewitnesses who roamed around
China during the Ching dynasty and gave
an account of what they saw and
experienced and also don't forget if
you're traveling on cathay pacific
airways you can listen to this chinese
sayings podcast and the china history
podcast one more reason to fly CX thanks
everyone Lazlo Montgomery on behalf of
the entire staff and management here at
t cut media signing up from Los Angeles
California consider joining me next time
for another chinese sayings podcast here
at teacup media teacup dot media take
care everyone